{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f16\froman Times New Roman;}{\f17\froman Symbol;}{\f18\fnil Wingdings;}{\f19\froman Wingdings 2;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red192\green192\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}\viewkind1\ftnbj \sectd\footery1080{\header \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 Steve Hoogendyk\tab \tab 8/30/2000\par }{\footer \pard \tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \plain\f16 \par }\pard \plain\b\f16\fs28 Paths of Gameplay\plain\f16 \par \par \plain\b\f16 Ancient Civilization Exposed \plain\f16  (Explorer/Sytems Thinker Path) \par \par Upon reaching and investigating Nalah\'92s home the player finds a journal with the location and description of the controls for the hidden dam. Apparently, the father built the dam to control flooding of  the ancient obelisk site during seasons of high rain.  I am proposing that currently it is a fairly dry season and so water is allowed to flow into the obelisk ponds so that they will not dry up. Consequently, the dam is currently recessed and hidden under a waterfall. By raising the dam, water is shut off exposing a ancient hall of statues representing various soul animals. If the player chooses to explore the small  ancient hallway Nalah will arrive and give a brief history of what the Dni know about this mysterious ancient civilization. She could also talk about the obelisk and the significance of the statues.\par \par \plain\i\f16 Additional Ideas\plain\f16 \par In addition, by  raising the dam a fish linking device is exposed. The player can then link to the sight of an underwater fish reservoir in Dni were certain \'93salmon like\'94 fish have adapted over time and link to as part of their spawning cycle.\par \par To get to the controls the player must find a way to navigate to the now overgrown and hidden controls.\par \par The dam could also be used as a hydropower producer. The energy could then be channeled to lift fences or lower drawbridges throughout the plateau. We could use this as a means of allowing access to different paths by having the player raise the dam and then power up the hydropower plant.\par \par Some sort of water irrigation channeling system puzzle.\par \par The obelisk could have a function were you could uncover its mystery that would then reveal a new location or bit of information.\par \par \plain\b\f16 Getting to Nalah\'92s Home \plain\f16 (Navigational Challenge: Climbing, Swimming, Diving)\plain\b\f16 \par \par \plain\f16 To get to Nalah\'92s home, according to the map, the player must travel underneath 2 waterfalls.\plain\b\f16  \plain\f16 I purpose that initially, it appears that the first waterfall is preventing passage to her house. A control panel would be available on the other side of the waterfall that extended a section of material above the water and pushed the waterfall out further. In essence, this would create a ceiling which the player could then walk underneath the waterfall to the other side. This device could be a remnant of the ancient civilization and used for protection from certain animals.\par \par To get to the control device the player would walk along the main path until they got to a clearing (somewhere around node 5). From there, the player would locate a place that looked climbable (possibly like a challenging climbing wall). They would then climb up the eroded rock wall and land on the path to Nalah. By backtracking they could approach the control panel that activates the waterfall ceiling. \plain\b\f16 \par \plain\i\f16 Additional Ideas\plain\b\f16 \par \plain\f16 I am thinking that the wall might even have rungs drilled in the face of the wall. Probably so that in the hot summer months Nalah and family could cliff dive into the pools below.\par \plain\b\f16 \par Node 4\plain\f16  (Difficult Path)\plain\b\f16  \plain\f16 Conquerors/Animal Interaction\par \par I propose that around this area are creatures which play and bath in a specific pond. This doesn\'92t happen like complete clockwork so it takes some observation. However, if the player spends some time in this area watching the animals they will notice that sometimes the animal dives into the pond and doesn\'92t seem to reappear (the creature must look like it needs air to survive). This will entice the player to walk into the pond. If the play wades out towards the fence which traverses the pond the ground will drop out and the player will be able to go underwater with the ability to swim under and through a sumbmersed rock cave which comes out on the other side. Reemerging the player will see a small clearing were they could walk on land. The clearing would then lead to a path to the Nalah\'92s Parents Burial site. The rest of the pond would be surrounded by impenetrable dense foliage and rock. \par \par \plain\i\f16 Additional Ideas\plain\f16 \par I have a general concept for a sound puzzle. The player arriving at the burial site would happen upon a (Tarzan lord of the jungle calling device) with a crank. When the player cranks the device a sound emits that seems to mimic a specific creatures call. The concept of the puzzle is to find a way to manipulate the sound device to create a sound which calls a large flying creature to a landing site. The code for producing the correct sound could be contained on the father or mothers grave stone. Maybe they thought their soul creature was some creature of flight.\par \par The player could then mount the creature and get a cool flythrough of Kalamee. As well, the creature would land near the zoo transfer facility and the player could then link out from there. The device could create various sounds and not all of the sounds would call creatures.\par \par \plain\b\f16 Animal Interactions, Fun and Play\par \plain\f16 -It might be kind of fun if one of the creatures liked to play ball. The creature may approach you and bring you an object. You could then take the object and throw it. The creature would then try to retireve it, and bring it back to you. Once you got sick of playing you could simply ignore the creature and it would then walk away or look depressed. \par \par A variation of this game could be played with dolphin like creatures and rings. The player would throw the rings out into the water (frisbee style) and the animal would bring it back to them. Sometimes the dolphins would be stubborn and the player would have to swim out into the water and get the rings themselves.\par \par -A game of tag with a creature could also be a fun activity. Either the player runs from a creature or the creature chases the player. Variations from the game of tag could also be explored.\par \par -An obstacle course could be set up that the player would have to navigate through as fast a possible. The player might be able to race monkey like creatures for competition. Nalah could sign language with the creature so the creature knew they were playing a specific game and help set up the races. (Behind the scenes Nalah might just be controlling the movements of the monkeys and competiting against the player)\par \par -As mentioned in previous discussions, the player may be able to make sounds or gestures that certain creatures would respond to. The player could learn about this by watching Nalah or getting a object like a whistle to create these sounds and experiment with.\par }
