{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset128\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Mincho{\*\falt MS Gothic};}{\f47\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f48\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f50\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f51\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f52\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f53\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f56\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f57\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\li360\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\fi360\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\li360\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Plain Text;}{\s16\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid67698689\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1128084122}{\list\listtemplateid-712339324{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fbias0 \fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fbias0 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }
{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fbias0 \fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01o;}{\levelnumbers;}\f2\fbias0 \fi-360\li5760
\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3929 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f14\fbias0 \fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid1402873827}{\list\listtemplateid67698689
\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid1603536500}}{\*\listoverridetable
{\listoverride\listid1402873827\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid1603536500\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid1128084122\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\info{\title Puzzle Solver - Players motivated by cognitive challenges}
{\author Stephen J. Hoogendyk}{\operator Stephen J. Hoogendyk}{\creatim\yr2000\mo9\dy5\hr16\min24}{\revtim\yr2000\mo9\dy5\hr16\min24}{\printim\yr2000\mo9\dy5\hr16\min17}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1240}{\nofchars7068}{\*\company Cyan, Inc.}
{\nofcharsws8680}{\vern89}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\b\fs28 \hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 Puzzle Solver}{\b \hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1  }{\hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 - Players motivated by cognitive challenges.
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\cgrid {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 Physics systems puzzles.
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }{\hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 World functionality puzzles.
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }{\hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 Logic puzzles.
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }{\hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 Social interaction puzzles.
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\hich\af1\dbch\af16\loch\f1 Mechanical/Machinery puzzles.}{\f1 
\par }{
\par }\pard\plain \s4\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel3\adjustright \b\f1\fs20 {\cgrid General Ideas for Puzzles 
\par }\pard\plain \fi360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 -wind currents
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 -water systems/aqueducts/series of locks/irrigation
\par -windmill wind power 
\par -building a beaver dam
\par -flood an area (raise water level)
\par }\pard\plain \s4\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel3\adjustright \b\f1\fs20 {
\par }{\fs24 Getting to Nalah\rquote s Home 
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 To get to Nalah\rquote s home, according to the map, the player must travel underneath 2 waterfalls.}{\b\f1\cgrid0  }{\f1\cgrid0 It appears that the
 first waterfall is obstructing passage to her house. A control panel  with a big }{\i\f1\cgrid0 target like button}{\f1\cgrid0 
, would be visible on the other side of the waterfall. If you could press the button, it would extend a section of material above the waterfall and push the
 waterfall out further. In essence, this would create a ceiling that the player could then walk underneath to the other side. This device is probably a remnant of an ancient civilization and used for protection from certain animals or unfriendly }{\f1 
Kalameeans}{\f1\cgrid0 .
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\li360\keepn\nowidctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\cgrid {\cgrid0 Waterfall Puzzle Summary
\par }\pard\plain \li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par -Upon further exploration the player happens upon the Projectile Scope Site (}{\b\f1\cgrid0 Note:}{\f1\cgrid0  See }{\f1 Projectile Scope Site)}{\b\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 -Collected some fruit to use as projectiles
\par -Load the catapult and aim the projectiles at the }{\i\f1\cgrid0 target like button
\par }\pard\plain \s16\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {\cgrid0 -After successfully hitting the }{\i\cgrid0 target like button}{\cgrid0 , the device will extend the waterfall out and allow the player to pass underneath to Nalah\rquote s Home

\par }\pard\plain \li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs24\cgrid0 Ancient Civilization Exposed }{\f1\fs24\cgrid0   
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {\cgrid0 Upon reaching and investigating Nalah\rquote s home, the player finds a journal with
 the location and description of the controls for the hidden dam. Apparently, the father built the dam to control flooding of the ancient obelisk site and the farming region below, during seasons of high rain. Lately it is has been a fairly dry season, so
 water is allowed to flow into the obelisk ponds which then travel on to the farming region so that they will not dry up. 
\par 
\par The dam is currently recessed and hidden under a waterfall. By raising the dam, water is shut off exposing an ancient hall of statues
 representing various soul animals. If the player chooses to explore the ancient hallway Nalah will arrive and give a brief history of what the D\rquote 
ni know about this mysterious ancient civilization. She could also talk about the obelisk and the significance of the statues.
\par 
\par Lastly, Nalah would tell you about her Mother and Father\rquote s death. She would reveal to you that her father believed in the ancient }{Kalameeans}{\cgrid0  religion. She then relays to you how her father believed that when }{
your soul or creature dies you must wonder around until you reunite with your soul. Nalah would also give you a critical piece of the Burial Site Puzzle (}{\b Note:}{ See Burial Site for more information)
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 \tab }{\i\f1\cgrid0 Dam Puzzle Summary
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par \tab -Explore and find the journal in Nalah\rquote s house
\par \tab -Travel back up the path and locate the hidden dam and controls
\par \tab -Activate the controls for raising the dam, shutting off the waterfall, and exposing the ancient Hall of Souls
\par \tab 
\par }\pard \fi360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\i\f1\cgrid0 Additional Ideas
\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 In addition, by raising the dam a fish linking device is exposed. The player can then link to the sight of an underwater fish hatchery in D'ni were certain \ldblquote salmon like\rdblquote 
 fish have adapted over time, and link to as part of their spawning cycle.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li360\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 The dam could also be used as a hydropower producer. We could use this as a means of all
owing access to different paths by having the player raise the dam, filter water through it, and then power up the hydropower plant. The energy could then be channeled to (i.e. lift fences, lower drawbridges, etc.) throughout the Equiquay.
\par }\pard\plain \s1\li360\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
\par }\pard \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright {\fs24 Windmill 
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par The 
player will walk past a Windmill device just off the beaten path. The windmill will contain a small room. Upon investigating this contraption, the player will discover that the windmill stores wind energy in the form of a large spring coil. The spring is 
then used to power a timer, which activates a network of timed water gates, which regulate how much water is sent through the farming region.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\li360\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\cgrid {Windmill Puzzle Summary
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard \fi360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 -Observe were the wind is blowing from
\par -Close the windmill blades
\par -Unlock the shaft 
\par -Rotate the blades toward the wind
\par -Lock down the shaft
\par -Open the blades again. 
\par 
\par This will start the blades turning.
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {\fs24 Agricultural Farming Region/Irrigation System
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Along the path the player will come across a series of channeling water systems which are bein
g used to irrigate a small region of farmland. The water systems branch in several sections and at each branch is a mechanical dam. The player will notice that on each mechanical dam is a symbol. Also, along each water system is a measuring device that me
asures water pressure.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 The mechanical dams are set in a variety of configurations to best irrigate the fertile land. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {\fs24 Hydropressure Elevator
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Towards the end of the farming region, where the irrigation water pours into a large pool, is a funneling device.
 Currently, the water pressure funneling device has some water pouring into it from the irrigation system. Attached to the funneling device is an elevator. The elevator appears to work on a water pressure principle. Upon further inspection of the elevator
, the player will notice a regulator device, which determines how high the elevator will rise, is broken. For the time being, the elevator only rises a specific height.
\par 
\par On the broken regulator is a control panel with a graphical expression that shows the r
atio of height to pressure. The elevator functions similar to a large piston. As the water pressure increases, the piston rises up, and in turn the elevator is lifted up.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Above the elevator the player can see a Ledge. The Ledge leads to a path that can only be reached via the currently broken elevator (}{\b\f1 Note:}{\f1  This path might also be accessible via a Conqueror route).

\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\fi360\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel1\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\cgrid {Hyrdropressure Elevator Puzzle Summary 
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par -Make sure the dam (built by the father) is in the down position (if it is raised the player will be unable to create enough water pressure)
\par }\pard \fi360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 -Examine Agricultural Farming Region
\par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 -Locate symbols on each mechanical dam
\par -Note the amount of water pressure on each of the corresponding measuring devices
\par -Examine the Hydropressure Elevator
\par -Locate the Ledge above the Hydropressure Elevator and determine its height (}{\b\f1 Note:}{\f1  see Projectile Scope Site)
\par -Examine the regulator control panel to determine the amount of pressure needed to raise the elevator to the proper height
\par -Close or open the proper mechanical dams to channel the correct amount of water pressure to the water funneling device located near the Hydropressure Elevator
\par }\pard \fi360\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 -Walk to the Hydropressure Elevator and ride the Elevator up
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \b\f1\fs20\cgrid {
\par }{\fs24 Projectile Scope Site
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {Along the path is a projectile scope device pointing to
ward the Hydropressure Elevator. Attached to the device is a catapult. The player can place fruit or any other small object in the device and launch it into the air. The telescope is used to aim the device. The scope is calibrated to compensate for the tr
ajectory of the projectile. 
\par 
\par The player can also use the telescope to measure the height of objects. If the player points the device at The Ledge above the Hydropressure Elevator, it will give a reading in terms of height. 
\par 
\par (}{\b Note: }{We can make this puzzle more difficult by forcing the player to find another location of a known height that is the same height as The Ledge. The player would then have to pan the scope across to verify The Ledges height.)
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s4\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel3\adjustright \b\f1\fs20 {\fs24 Burial Site
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par The player arriving at the burial site would happen upon a }{\i\f1\cgrid0 Tarzan lord of the jungle calling}{\f1\cgrid0  }{\i\f1\cgrid0 device}{\f1\cgrid0 
 with a crank. When the player cranks the device a sound emits that seems to mimic a specific creatures call. The device would create variety of sounds, and on occasion, an animal would show up.
\par 
\par The concept of the puzzle is 2 parts. First find the creature which Nalah\rquote s father represents (some sort of creature of flight) by solving the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 Ancient Civilization Exposed}{\i\f1\cgrid0  }{\f1\cgrid0 
section. The second part of the puzzle is to obtain a code. The code would be placed on her father\rquote s tombstone. 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {\cgrid0 The player would crank the }{\i\cgrid0 Tarzan lord of jungle calling device}{\cgrid0 
 and call the creature. Once the creature arrives the player could then mount the creature and get a pre-scripted flythrough of Kalamee. As well, the creature would land near the zoo transfer facility and the player could then link out from there. 
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\li360\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel2\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\cgrid {\cgrid0 Social Interaction/Code Puzzle Summary
\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par -Get information from Nalah on what type of creature her father was
\par -Turn a dial to the proper creature
\par -Plug in code from fathers Tombstone
\par -Crank }{\i\f1\cgrid0 Tarzan lord of jungle calling device
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 -Mount flying creature and fly to the Zoo Transfer Facility link site
\par 
\par }{
\par }}